cloud: add TiDB Cloud CLI docs (#12111)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/cli-reference.md

---
title: TiDB Cloud CLI Reference
Summary: Provides an overview of TiDB Cloud CLI.
---

# TiDB Cloud CLI Reference

TiDB Cloud CLI is a command line interface, which allows you to operate TiDB Cloud from your terminal with a few lines of commands. In the TiDB Cloud CLI, you can easily manage your TiDB Cloud clusters, import data to your clusters, and perform more operations.

## Before you begin

Make sure to first [set up your TiDB Cloud CLI environment](/tidb-cloud/get-started-with-cli.md). Once you have installed the `ticloud` CLI, you can use it to manage your TiDB Cloud clusters from the command lines.

## Available commands

> The following table lists the available commands for the TiDB Cloud CLI.

Author: Should we use `commands available for the TiDB Cloud CLI.` here

| cluster    | create, delete, describe, list                             | Manage clusters                                                                                          |
| completion | bash, fish, powershell, zsh                                | Generate completion script for specified shell                                                           |
| config     | create, delete, describe, edit, list, set, use             | Configure user profiles.                                                                    |
| help       | cluster, completion, config, help, import, project, update | View help for any command                                                                                |
| import     | cancel, describe, list, start                              | Manage [import](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-migration-overview.md#import-data-from-files-to-tidb-cloud) tasks |
| project    | list                                                       | Manage projects                                                                                          |

> | update     |                                                            | Update the CLI to the latest version                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| update     |  /                                                          | Update the CLI to the latest version                                                                     |
```

Author: Use - instead

## Command modes

The TiDB Cloud CLI provides the following two modes for some commands for easy use:

- Interactive mode

    In this mode, you can run a command without flags (such as `ticloud config create`), and the CLI prompts you for input.

- Non-interactive mode

>     In this mode, you must provide all the required arguments and flags when running a command, such as `ticloud config create --profile-name <profile-name> --public-key <public-key> --private-key <private-key>`

Reviewer 2: According to https://developers.google.cn/style/word-list#letter-s, generally avoid using "should",  because should is ambiguous by definition, and it can be problematic. For example, if you're telling the reader what to do, "should" implies that the action is recommended but optional, leaving the reader unsure about what to do." 

While, "must" is used to describe a required action or state (for example, You must have the Editor role)."  Therefore, either "must" or "need to" works better than "should".

## User profile

For the TiDB Cloud CLI, a user profile is a collection of properties associated with a user, including the profile name, public key, and private key. To use TiDB Cloud CLI, you must create a user profile first.

### Create a user profile

Use [`ticloud config create`](/tidb-cloud/ticloud-config-create.md) to create a user profile.

### List all user profiles

Use [`ticloud config list`](/tidb-cloud/ticloud-config-list.md) to list all user profiles.

An example output is as follows:

```
Profile Name
default (active)
dev
staging
```

> In this example output, the user profile `defalut` is currently active.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example output, the user profile `default` is currently active.
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud CLI Reference

> Summary: The reference of the TiDB Cloud CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Summary: Provides an overview of TiDB Cloud CLI.
```

---

# TiDB Cloud CLI Reference

> Use the TiDB Cloud CLI to manage your TiDB Cloud clusters, import data to your clusters, and more from your terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud CLI is a command line interface, which allows you to operate TiDB Cloud from your terminal with a few lines of commands. In TiDB Cloud CLI, you can easily manage your TiDB Cloud clusters, import data to your clusters, and perform more operations. 
```

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

> Make sure to first [set up your TiDB Cloud CLI environment](/tidb-cloud/get-started-with-cli.md). Once you installed the `ticloud` CLI, you can use it to manage your TiDB Cloud clusters from the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to first [set up your TiDB Cloud CLI environment](/tidb-cloud/get-started-with-cli.md). Once you installed the `ticloud` CLI, you can use it to manage your TiDB Cloud clusters from the command lines.
```

> ## Available Commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Available commands
```

> Use `ticloud [command] [subcommand]` to start up the `ticloud` CLI in your terminal. For users using TiUP, use `tiup cloud [command] [subcommand]` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table lists the available commands for the TiDB Cloud CLI. 
To start up the `ticloud` CLI in your terminal, you can use `ticloud [command] [subcommand]`. For users using [TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tiup-overview), use `tiup cloud [command] [subcommand]` instead.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Question: For users who have installed TiUP, if they run `ticloud [command] [subcommand]`, will it work?

Author: It doesn't work.

| completion | bash, fish, powershell, zsh                                | Generate completion script for specified shell                                                           | 
| config     | create, delete, describe, edit, list, set, use             | Configure settings in a user profile.                                                                    | 
| help       | cluster, completion, config, help, import, project, update | View help for any command                                                                                | 
| import     | cancel, describe, list, start                              | Manage [import](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-migration-overview.md#import-data-from-files-to-tidb-cloud) tasks |
| project    | list                                                       | Manage projects                                                                                          | 
| update     |                                                            | Update the CLI to the latest version                                                                     | 

> ## Command mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Command modes
```

> The TiDB Cloud CLI supports two modes with some commands for easy use: interactive mode and non-interactive mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TiDB Cloud CLI provides two modes for some commands for easy use: interactive mode and non-interactive mode.
```

> - In interactive mode, the CLI prompts you for input when you run a command. Such as `ticloud config create`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In the interactive mode, the CLI prompts you for input when you run a command, such as `ticloud config create`.
```

> - In non-interactive mode, you must provide all the required args and flags when running a command. Such as `ticloud config create --profile-name <profile-name> --public-key <public-key> --private-key <private-key>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In the non-interactive mode, you must provide all the required arguments and flags when running a command, such as `ticloud config create --profile-name <profile-name> --public-key <public-key> --private-key <private-key>`
```

> ## Global Flags

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Global flags

The following table lists the global flags for the TiDB Cloud CLI. 
```

| Flag                 | Description                                  | Required | Extra                                                                                                             |
|----------------------|----------------------------------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | --no-color           | Disable color output                         | false    | Only work in non-interactive mode. In interactive mode, disable color output may not work with some UI components |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --no-color           | Disable color in output.                         | false    | Only works in the non-interactive mode. In the interactive mode, disabling color might not work with some UI components. |
```

> | -P, --profile string | Profile to use from your configuration file. | false    | Work in both modes                                                                                                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| -P, --profile string | Profile to use from your configuration file. | false    | Work in both non-interactive and interactive modes.                                                                                                |
```

## Feedback

> If you have any questions or suggestions, please [file an issue](https://github.com/tidbcloud/tidbcloud-cli/issues/new/choose). Also, we welcome any contributions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any questions or suggestions on the TiDB Cloud CLI, feel free to create an [issue](https://github.com/tidbcloud/tidbcloud-cli/issues/new/choose). Also, we welcome any contributions.
```

TiDB Cloud CLI is a command line interface, which allows you to operate TiDB Cloud from your terminal with a few lines of commands. In the TiDB Cloud CLI, you can easily manage your TiDB Cloud clusters, import data to your clusters, and perform more operations.

> > **Note:**

Author: For some features such as deleting cluster,  it also work with dedicated cluster.

}
```

### Set properties in a user profile

Use [`ticloud config set`](tidb-cloud/ticloud-config-set.md) to set properties in a user profile.

### Switch to another user profile

Use [`ticloud config use`](tidb-cloud/ticloud-config-use.md) to switch to another user profile.

An example output is as follows:

```
Current profile has been changed to default
```

> ### Open profile config file with editor

Author: Using `config file` is better because the config file contains the user profile config and global config(coming later).
